Chapter 33: TCP/IP

Project 33.1: ESP32 as client.

TCP Connection

    A TCP connection will need to be established before data can be transmitted.

    The client sends a connection request to the server. Each time request is proposed, a, "three-times handshake" is required.

        First handshake:
            Client sends a connection request to the server and waits for the server to confirm.
        
        Second handshake:
            Ther server sends a response back to the client, informing that it has received the connection request.
        
        Third handshake:
            Client sends a confirmation message to the server again to confirm the connection.

Brief description of TCP and some basics:
    
    TCP is a connection-oriented, low-level transmission control protocol.
    
    Establishing a connection
    
        After TCP establishes a connection, the client and server can send and receive messages to each other.

        The connection will always exist, so long as either the client or server do not initiate a disconnection.

        Each time one party sends a message, the receiver sends and acknowledgement.


Important functons from Wifi.h (Client Class):

https://docs.arduino.cc/libraries/wifi/#Client%20class

    connect(ip, port, timeout)/connect(*host, post, timeout):
        Connect to the IP address and port specified in the constructor.
        The return value indicates success or failure.

        connect() also supports DNS lookups when using a domain name.

        ip:, *host: ip address of target server
        port:       port number of target server
        timeout:    connection timeout
    
    connected():
        Judges whether the client is connection.
        
        A client is considered connected if the connection has been closed but there is still unread data.

        If return value is 1, connection is successful.
        If return value is 0, connection is a failure.
    
    stop():
        Stops the TCP connection by disconnecting from the server.
    
    print():
        Sends data to the server connection to the client.
    
    available():
        Returns the number of bytes for reading (the amount of data that has been written to the client by the server it is connected to).
    
    read():
        Read the next byte received from the server the client is connected to (after the last call to read()).
    
    readString():
        Reads the string in the receive buffer.


Project 33.2: ESP32 as Server

    In this project, the ESP32 is used as a server and waits for a connection, and communicates with the client on the same LAN.

    
    Server Class Functions Used In This Project

    WiFiServer(uint16_t, port=80, uint8_t max_clients=4): Creates a server that listens for incoming connections on the specified port.
        port: The server port, a range from 0 to 65535 with a default of 80.
        max_clients: The maximum number of clients with a default number as 4.
    
    server.begin(port): Tells the server to begin listening for incoming connections.
        port: The server port, a range from 0 to 65535 with a default of 80.
    
    setNoDelay(bool nodelay): Allows you to disable the Nagle algorithm, which can be useful for reducing latency in TCP connections by sending smaller packets immediately without waiting for more data to accumulate.
        nodelay: True will disable the Nagle algorithm.
    
    close(): Closes the TCP connection.

    stop(): Stops the TCP connection.