CHAPTER 32: WiFi Working Modes

Three different WiFi operating odes of the ESP32:

    1. Station mode.
    2. AP mode.
    3. AP+Station mode.


Project 32.1: Station mode.

    Refernces:

        WiFi.h:
        https://docs.espressif.com/projects/arduino-esp32/en/latest/api/wifi.html

        https://docs.arduino.cc/libraries/wifi/


    When the ESP32 runs in Station mode, it acts as a WiFi client.
    It can connect to the router network, and communicate with other devices on the router.

    Names and Passwords:
    You will have to enter the correct router name and password in the Sketch in order to be abe to login to the network.

    Reference:
    Every time you want to use WiFi, a sketch must include WiFi.h.
    begin(ssid, password, channel, bssid, conect)
        - Esp32 is used as Station to connect hotspot.
        ssid: WiFi hotpost name
        password: WiFi hotpsot optional param,.
        channel: WiFi hotspot channel number, communicating through specified channel, optional parameter.
        bssid: mac address of WiFi hotspot, optional param.
        connect: booplean optional param, defaulting to true. If set to false, then ESP32 won't connect WiFi.
    
    config(local_ip, gateway, subnet, dns1, dns2)
        - Set static local IP address.
        local_ip: Station fixed IP address.
        subnet: subnet_mask.
        dns1, dns2: Optional params, defines IP address of domain name server.
    
    status: Obtain the connection status of WiFi.
    local IP(): Obtain lIP address in Sation Mode.
    disconnect(): Disconnect WiFi.
    setAutoConnect(boolean): Sets automatic connection every time ESP32 is powered on.
    setAutoReconnect(boolean): Set to automatically reconnect every time ESP32 is disconnected from WiFi.


Project 32.2: AP mode.

AP mode

    When the ESP32 selects AP mode, it creates a hotspot network that is separate from the Internet and waits for other devices to connect.

WiFi API
    The wi-fi API provides support for the 802.11b/g/n protocol driver.

    This API includes:

        - Station mode.
            STA mode or Wi-Fi client mode.
            ESP32 connects to an access point.
        
        - AP mode.
            Soft-AP mode or Access Point mode.
            Devices connect to the ESP32.
        
        - Security modes (WPA2, WPA3, etc.)

        - Scanning for access points.
    
    Working as AP (WiFi Access Point)

        ESP32 is configured as an Access Point (AP).
        It is capable of receiving incoming connections from other devices (called "stations") by providing a Wi-Fi network.

        This mode can be used for serving an HTTP or HTTPS server inside the ESP32.
    
    Working as an STA (WiFi Station)

        STA mode is used to connect the ESP32 to a Wi-Fi network that is provided by an Access Point.
    
        This is the mode required if you want your project connected to the internet.
    
    WiFiAP

        Used to configure and manage the Wi-Fi as an Access Point.